---
layout: post
title: "Birthday #36"
description: "Self-reflection"
tags: [self, life, success, failure]
comments: true
published: true
---

A few days ago, you woke up in angst. With another birthday around the corner, you were “getting old.” You were turning 36 soon and hadn’t accomplished all you had set out to do back when you were 20.

You see, you have sizable career and personal ambitions. As a techie, you come across and read stories about other techies who are doing or working on teams doing world-changing things. You want to be one of those people. If what Malcolm Gladwell says in *Outliers: The Story of Success* is correct, these people are smart, of course, but above all, they are lucky. It stands to reason then that if you work hard to put yourself in the right places at the right time, you too will get lucky.

Perhaps it is not that simple. Most of the people you look to as models grew up with technology around them or had access to it so early on in life that it’s foolish to compare your background with theirs. It often feels that their “unfair advantage” is that they were born under the right set of circumstances and you were not. Perhaps it is simpler than you think: You’re not cut out for these things.

"No. It can’t be. It won’t be!”

You refuse to believe that you’re not up to it and that’s understandable. After all, you are a driven individual. You’ve experienced some success in your career and know what winning tastes like a little. You’ve taught yourself everything you needed to know to get this far, haven’t you?

You will use this angst you’ve been feeling as fuel and work twice as hard, network twice as much and not be with your family twice as much. You will teach your kids the meaning of hard work, perseverance and resilience by not being there for them as much while you "work for them to have a better future.” Yeah, that’s it. You will lie to yourself just a little bit, steal from their joy just a little bit because it’ll pay off later and in a big way.

(Sigh)

Damn it, why can't you have it all? Why can’t you have the beautiful family and the comfort in life that only billion-dollar IPOs can bring? By most accounts, these things tend to be mutually exclusive. You can’t spend time putting in the work to have that beautiful, awesome family life and have the requisite time for chasing that kind of paper.

If you can stop comparing yourself to outliers for a moment, are you willing to redefine what “success” is for you then?

“No, there’s got to be a way to do this. Stop wallowing in self-pity and figure it out damn it! You always do."

You want to believe in this carrot that’s been put in front of you so damn much that you’re willing so sacrifice that which matters most in order to pursue it with no guarantee of a payoff.

Did you catch that last part? You have no guarantee of a payoff even if you sacrifice your family, your friends, your health and your well-being. None. You could be another statistic. For every success you read about in the industry rags, there are dozens and even hundreds of failures. Heck, you've already failed once. You most likely will repeat your failures and pay a higher price each time. But wait, there’s more. You’d not only “fail” by those standards but you’d also most likely lose your family in the process. That’s the kind of shit people go into depression for or worse, check out of this life altogether.

(Sigh)

Okay, you’re starting to get it. It’s sinking in. Maybe. You’re still a driven individual. You’re not going to just give up on your dreams, career goals and ambitions. You want so much out of this life. So, where does that leave you? If you had the answer to that, you wouldn’t be talking to yourself now would you.

You still need answers however. You need a way forward. What works for others will not work for you and you know that. You need to find your own balance. The one that yields a satisfying career, a comfortable living and quality time with your family, kids and yes, even yourself.

Did you catch it? Maybe that’s your new definition of success. Balance.
